# Kickstarter-Project-Analysis
This repository contains data collected about kickstarter projects and analysis on that data. The data consists of an excel spreadsheet that contains the raw data, filtered tables, and several useful pivot tables that show some of the key trends in the data. From the data, some interesting trends were definitley noticed.

More than half of Kickstarter campaigns are successful, indicating that they are generally fairly successful ventures. From the data, 53.1% of them succeeded, 37.2% failed, 8.5% were canceled, and 1.2% are still live. Out of the live, ongoing campaigns only 16% have met a successful outcome (meaning the amount raised is greater than or equal to the goal). And only 20% of the live campaigns have reached 50% or more of their fundraising goal. Therefore, the prognosis for the current live campaigns is not looking very promising, as it seems that many of them will fall short of the mark. Given this, it seems that the number of successful Kickstarter campaigns in the long run will not be too much more than the 53.1% success figure we currently have.

In terms of category, Kickstarter campaigns related to the performing arts seemed to be most successful. The categories of theater, music and film/video are the three most successful categories, respectively. The category of theater is particularly successful. Theater has the highest percentage of successful campaigns per category, as 60.2% of theater campaigns end up being successful. Breaking down the theater category, 76.5% of these campaigns are of the sub-category: plays. Plays are very successful as well in their own right, with a 65.1% success rate. Bottom line: if you are going to start a Kickstarter campaign for theater, there’s a pretty good chance it will succeed. This is the category I would feel most comfortable starting one in. The performing arts in general are not a bad idea either. Campaigns having to do with theater, music, and film/video account for 75% of all successful Kickstarter campaigns. In addition to theater campaigns having the highest success rate, they also have the highest average donation per backer out of any of the categories.

Although theater campaigns had the most success in terms of the number of projects that met their goals, it was actually the technology campaigns that were the most effective at raising money, as these ventures in the long run made more total money across all projects than any other categories. Out of all categories, technology had the highest surplus in terms of funding. These successful technology campaigns totaled about 13 million dollars in surplus funding. The surplus value of funding for all successful theater campaigns meanwhile was around 6.6 million dollars. Technology also had 90 campaign’s funding exceed 200% of the goal, whereas for theater that number was 33. Furthermore, technology also had the second highest average donation per backer after theater. Therefore, although theater campaigns had better numbers in terms of amount of successful projects, technology campaigns generated larger amounts of money. 
